Hi. My name is
Christiana, and I'm a teacher
at Marshview Middle School.
Today I'm going to be talking to you
about how we develop peer learning,
and interdependence
through our work in the cafeteria.
So our students, are invited in grades
seven and eight
to participate in our cafeteria program
as a volunteer.
This program is a free lunch program
that we have, through the support
of community members
and outside organizations
So our local food bank provides
us, with sandwiches and snacks
on a regular basis, and they respond
to the needs, in the community.
So if we say, hey, this week, we,
you know, we were short on sandwiches,
they'll send us more next week.
And if I email them and say, hey, like
this week, we actually didn't need as much
and they'll, they're mindful to cut back
so there's less food waste.
And so they,
they are really great partners in that,
in that they also understand
that kids need to be fed.
And they, they acknowledge the importance
of that and are willing to support us.
We also get some outside funding.
There are different organizations
that, will put out calls for funding.
And then we can apply for grants.
And, and so we've gotten some funding
that way, which has been allowed us
to enlarge the program.
where anybody can come any day at lunch
and get something to eat.
We work through, teaching them
cooking skills and safety,
kitchen safety skills.
And there
there's all kinds of things going on.
And so we eventually prepare meals
for hot lunches on Friday.
This is something that, you know,
it takes a while to, to work on.
And we have we have a lot of skills
we have to develop.
But our students are able to serve to cook
and to learn how to properly prepare food
that is safe for everyone to eat.
This is really important
because we have some students coming in
who have tons of experience.
You know,
they cook meals for their family at home.
They're they've been baking for years.
And then we have some students who this is
brand new for.
And so they get to work together
and provide a meal for their peers.
And as we
know, it's important that kids have enough
to eat to be able to learn.
And so they realize that, oh,
I'm contributing positively
to my school environment
by providing everybody with enough food.
It also is a way for them to practice
interacting
with one another in positive ways.
And sometimes we all need practice
on that to,
yeah.
So this has been a really great
opportunity for students to learn from one
another, to learn really important skills
that they'll need later in life.
And to really contribute
positively to this school environment.
That's great.
How you feel okay with that over again?
Do you want to do it again? Do you?
Are you happy with that?
I mean, I just I feel like it
would be different every time I said it.
And so that is like
that has been my deliberate approach.
Scripting anything.
Yeah.
It's going to come
but I feel like I hit
sort of like I didn't do
I know you would said like talk
about how the program started.
But that is kind of a long story.
So I kind of left little like you. Yeah.
You paired it down really well.
You got the nuts and bolts right away
and you focused on
how is that beneficial for students.
And yeah that's great.
And I just felt it was important
to acknowledge that like we have community
partners as well because it's a program
that wouldn't work if you
if it was just the school doing it
it wouldn't work.
So yeah I figured that would give people
some information.
A little bit on that front.
So so let let's that's still rolling.
Okay.
So, maybe you can speak to, you know,
start off with how did you and get,
you know, how we engage the outside,
community members.
Okay.
So, I mean,
we are really lucky in our community,
that outside,
our organizations are actually constantly
looking out for our students
and have offered opportunities to us.